git is used for version control. it keeps track of the entire history of the things we are trying to do on our computer


git is the actual version control software
github is a webservice to do git things on a web server


by clicking on history I can have a look at the complete history of the commits of a particular file.

we have a commit hash for each of our commit

branching****
we can make different branches which have different version of the same file 
but whenever we want we can merge the branch into the master branch

pull request is the request to allow thw newer branch to merge his changes into the master branch or some other branch

fork 
it means to have a instance of someone elses repo in your account
it is an exact replica
we can do anything with the repo and it does not effect the main branch


pull request is ask the main account holder to accept my changes to the repo .i.e pull my changes

the master branch of a forked repo refers to the master branch of the copy not the branch from where we have forked our repo

while making an commit if we add #issure number we can then refer to that issue

wrting this fixes #10 also closes the issue
fixes word is the key to closing the isssues


git clone http address clones the repo
git status --> this command tells which all files are changed or modified. THis command can be fired after getting into to repo directory
before we could commit changes through git
we have to login first

commands for that are 
git config --global user.email email_adress
git config --global user.name "user name"

git config --list show us the configuration settings

git commit -a(a means add all files  and commit them) -m "commit message"
git commit -a -m "I changed this" 

git log -2 shows you the last two commits

push
push your local machine data to the github server

pull
some else made changes to our online repo and now I want those changes. then I will do git pull

remote
duplicate instance of repo that lives on some remote server

git remote
shows me all the remotes
git remote gives me the name of the remote




git remote -v (v means the verbose)
this shows their real names


git push origin branch_name is used to push the commimt

to make a new repo--> go to the directory and write git init
git status on this repo says that there are untracked files.
till now we changed the files downloaded from github
the first thing we have to do is to make this directory a repo

new files has to be added first

so we have take those files to the staging area from where they are commited
so now we have to perform two steps, first add and then commit

to add files we write git add filename
this adds the files to the staging area.

git add . adds all the files to the staging area.

if we clone a repo from github them the remote comes along with it and if we make a repo on local machine then I have to make a remote.

git remote add origin https://github.com/satinder147/trial.git
is used to add a remote named origin
we can name the remote anything else as well



git is a powerfull version controll system.

3 benefits from git
colloboration
history
branching

repository is the project
repo is a place where we store all our code,data,history,all the changs which git tracks for the project

commit
it is like way by which git saves it's files


staging
in git before we are allowed to commit our changes, we have to stage the changes
staging area is like choosing files that I want to commit, review them and then send them for committing

git add -A --> adds all the changes to the staging area

if we accendently delete the code, we could revert back to our last commit
by writing git checkout -- .

git stores all of its history data in a hidden folder stored in the root of our repo

push--> commiting our changes to github
pull--> if some one else made changes to the repo, and I want to update my copy to the changed one,  I have to use the pull operation.


git init creates a repo
but make sure we are in that directory


git add name_of_file adds the file to the staging area


git commit -m "message" commits the changes


git checkout -- . restores our files back to the last commit

git clone add
clones an repo from online github 


git remote set-url origin address
setsthe remote origin as the address

staging area is also known as index

commit objects are immutable


A branch is a named pointer to a commit. Selecting a branch in Git terminology is called to checkout a branch. If you are working in a certain branch, the creation of a new commit advances this pointer to the newly created commit.
